## A Data Recycling Architecture for Neuroscientific Discovery
Bradly Alicea
Orthogonal Research and Education Laboratory

Data has become ubiquitous in the modern world, and specialized field such as Data Science and Informatics have emerged to extract insights from this deluge. For the area of Neuroscience in particular, modern data collection techniques produce much more data than can be analyzed by groups that specialize in investigating functional mechanisms. One short-term solution to this proliferation has been to store data in repositories for public consumption similar to a library. Here, I will argue that this is the most passive way forward. There is much potential for data recycling, as well as the potential for identifying opportunities for data recycling within and between scientific organizations.  

While the aforementioned short-term solution follows from the principles of a library, it has also lead to an ad-hoc group of data recyclers. This includes the analysis and annotation of primary datasets, the assembly of secondary datasets used for purposes such as novel comparative studies, and the production of tertiary datasets such as visualizations or a set of mathematical abstractions. While the more traditional library model has been excellent for accessibility and the development of standards for data storage and exchange, a formal model of utility has limited the potential of reusing data. Given this complexity, it has become clear that more formal methods for transforming these public data is required to sustain practice and even help to establish a new subfields of scientific inquiry.  

To demonstrate how data can be recycled within an organization, I present the example of [DevoZoo](https://tinyurl.com/yc2d357n), a data recycling initiative within the [DevoWorm group](https://tinyurl.com/yct2okdt). DevoZoo provides access to a variety of both raw and processed datasets utilized in published studies by the DevoWorm group, by educational initiatives, and as the basis for further simulation/visualization. DevoZoo also provides open secondary and tertiary datasets which are unique to the community for a host of model organisms. In addition, DevoZoo provides specifications and code for multiple _in silico_ models used in the DevoWorm group. This provides a resource for both potential collaborators and contributors to the DevoWorm group and the broader Developmental Neurobiology community.  

Yet DevoZoo merely serves as a portal for data access. Truly open data also requires a broader characterization of original and derivative datasets. The ability to obtain insights from derivative data can be improved with a formal data recycling architecture (https://tinyurl.com/y9s4oy3s) that defines open access and the components of open primary, secondary, and tertiary datasets. This will provide a strong foundation for a number of new initiatives, bolster the practice of open science, and promote positive attitudes with respect to data sharing and alternative uses and transformation of primary data.  
